[Born to Be Alive]
[Episode 21]
Did you see any
suspicious person?
What's wrong?
Do you know that man?
He looks familiar.
But I can't remember.
That driver...
He was
referring to that driver.
We...
We saw him
at the entrance of the copper factory.
Captain,
there must be something wrong
with that factory.
There must be something wrong
Ms. Zhang.
Director Zhang.
-Mayor Duo.
Let me.
Bai Ju,
you need to rest.
She needs to rest
for at least a week.
Don't worry.
I'll be off then.
I don't want that.
Chun made the soup for you.
Have some while it's still hot.
Mom...
don't you have anything to say?
What should I say?
If you're angry, just let it out.
You weren't exactly
friendly to Captain Duojie just now.
I am angry with him.
But does it help with anything?
That kid...
I tried my best.
A gold mine?
The mechanized kind?
We don't know yet.
But they're not
just some random placer gold panners.
More like
a large-scale gold mining organization.
I haven't heard of it.
Are you sure?
From the mercury
and other information we collected,
it's very likely.
Bai Ju and Zhang Yang being hit
is most likely this organization
trying to take revenge on us.
Have you informed
the Public Security Bureau
of this?
The things we seized
and the information we gathered
were all handed over to them.
Shi Long's team
is investigating this.
If it's confirmed
that there is large-scale
illegal
gold mining
in the Uninhabited Zone,
we must firmly crack down on it.
The investigation of the copper factory
will require
cooperation from commerce
and tax departments.
We'll need the county's support.
Don't worry.
I'll coordinate.
Be careful.
No more incidents.
Okay.
There's one more thing...
Go ahead.
Our pickup truck is broken.
It won't start.
I need a car.
I'll figure something out.
If you ask me,
you shouldn't indulge Ju.
She's recovering
and shouldn't eat spicy food.
I picked these green chili peppers.
They're mildly spicy
and won't upset her stomach.
Try it.
Let me have a taste.
What do you think?
Should I be honest?
Of course.
This...
for a patient meal,
you've added
too much seasoning.
A bit too strong in flavor.
Try it.
Right?
This is yours.
We still have time.
I'll make another one.
If you ask me,
we're wasting our time here.
What do you mean?
Now that
Fei is back,
he's taking care of Ju
and doing everything.
We really shouldn't bother.
I reckon
it won't be long
before he becomes
our brother-in-law.
I think they are a good match.
Maybe...
Maybe
Ju will move to the provincial capital.
Why don't we open the restaurant
in the provincial capital?
Our whole family
together in the provincial capital—
how nice that would be.
Ju won't need to cook
after work.
She and Fei can come over;
we'll cook for her,
eat together,
it'll be such a lively day.
What do you think, Chun?
No.
The provincial capital...
The rent is too expensive.
We can't afford it.
Here.
Try it.
You made it?
When did you
learn to cook?
I borrowed the hospital canteen's stove.
I also asked Chef Wang from the canteen
to teach me.
You sure know how to pick a mentor.
In a bit.
It'll get cold.
I'm not hungry.
How's...
the draft of my article
looking?
Boss, could you...
give me some advice?
Good.
It's good.
I just don't understand it.
These are Chinese characters.
What part don't you understand?
How come
you're calling the Mountain Patrol
"environmental fighters"?
And...
"great"?
This word is a bit
over the top, no?
Besides,
isn't environmental protection
about managing pollution,
like river pollution and stuff?
What does that have to do with us?
Environmental protection isn't just about
preserving mountains and rivers.
Your efforts to combat poaching
and protect wildlife
are also environmental protection.
Let me put it this way.
The environment we live in,
this earth,
is alive.
Alive?
Yes.
The environment has a temperature,
a pulse,
and a heartbeat.
The earth we live on
is like a giant body,
home to over eight million species.
Humans are just one of them.
Humans are no different
from Tibetan antelopes,
sand foxes,
or any other animal.
We're all
flesh and blood in this body.
We support each other,
work together,
and rely on each other,
collectively sustaining
the operation of this body.
That's why
life goes on and on,
cycling over and over.
No one can do without anyone else.
So when we learn that
endangered species like Xinjiang tiger
or Chinese Rhinoceros have gone extinct,
we feel
as if...
a piece of our heart has been torn away.
We feel sad.
This is actually
an animal instinct.
Just like
what you guys are doing.
I think it's really remarkable.
"Great" is not
big enough a word for summarizing it.
You mean "we," right?
Yes.
I mean "we."
I came back this time—
Doing something remarkable
requires paying a high price.
When you first came here,
I mentioned this when we talked
about Dongzhiba.
It might be...
not heroic at all.
A bullet that comes out of nowhere,
or...
a car that suddenly rushes over...
Right in front of you.
Taking a person away.
Maybe just a second ago,
you were still talking to each other,
laughing...
Bai Ju,
I'm here.
I know.
I'm not blind.
I mean,
I'm here.
I'll be by your side.
I won't leave suddenly.
I'll only show up suddenly—
when you need me.
After you left,
how come you never wrote to me?
I was writing
to Duojie the whole time.
What about me?
Because...
It's a series of reports.
I thought we would
see each other again.
I thought we could...
we could...
talk in person.
Because contacting Duojie
is part of work.
It's not the same... with you.
How?
I'm hungry.
I want to eat.
Okay.
Go ahead.
Got an appetite now?
Comrade Bai Ju has regained her appetite.
I need to record it.
The lens cap is still on.
What do you think?
Please comment on my cooking.
Just what you'd expect
from Chef Wang of the canteen's mentee.
Right?
Well, then...
dig in.
-Chun.
-Sir.
Already started your meal?
You're finally here.
What did you cook
for me?
Fried pork with chili.
Your favorite as a kid.
It's not spicy enough.
A bit too bland.
When you recover,
I'll make you the extra spicy version.
You made that?
I did.
It's my first time, so probably...
not very good.
Have a taste.
Try it. It's "delicious."
Okay.
Too chewy, huh?
What do you think?
Tastes like something that would come from
Wang of the canteen, right?
He worked hard on this.
Don't say that.
You finish it then.
Film her.
Can you stop filming?
How am I supposed to eat?
You smoke?
I...
I smoke occasionally.
Have one.
I don't smoke.
You go ahead.
Although we haven't had much contact,
actually...
I've known about you for quite some time.
You...
you read my articles too?
No.
Bai Ju mentioned you
in her letters.
I see.
Well,
your impression of me
must not be very good.
Not at all.
It's good.
Really?
Because she's always lecturing me,
I thought...
you would think...
She's always been like that
since she was a kid.
Right.
I have something
to ask you.
Would you mind?
No.
Please go ahead.
What's your plan for the future?
Going back to the provincial capital
or staying here for Bai Ju?
To be honest,
I don't really dare
to think about the future.
I like Bai Ju.
So much that...
So much that
it scares me.
Especially this time,
when I almost lost her.
Seeing her lying there
with her eyes closed
made me feel like I was back
in the Uninhabited Zone.
I realized that
if she didn't wake up,
I would be regretful
for the rest of my life.
For chili peppers,
you should pick these green ones.
It's spicy,
but not that spicy.
Okay.
I never thought
I would be like this.
I never thought I'd meet her.
But she just showed up,
turning my life,
my plans,
and my mindset
completely upside down.
Bai Ju once said that
no matter how much you like something
or a place,
if there aren't people you care about,
you won't stay long.
Try to have her eat less mutton.
It's heaty.
Okay.
Have beef instead.
Do you know what "grass fat" is?
I've heard of it.
Back then I didn't know
how to respond.
But now I want to say
there're things I like here.
And people I like.
I will be good to her,
take care of her,
and protect her.
Crosswise for beef and mutton;
lengthwise for pork.
Or it'll be hard to chew.
Okay.
Give it a try.
No matter the outcome
or my abilities,
I will definitely do my best.
Delicious.
Off I go.
Chun,
what are you doing there?
Nothing.
Just hanging out here for a while.
Since when do you smoke?
Just giving it a try.
I wanted to know
why so many people like to smoke.
Let's go.
Let's check out restaurant locations.
There's an old noodle restaurant
next to the trading company,
do you remember?
The owner is getting old.
Let's talk to him.
It probably won't cost much.
Let's go.
I'm not going.
It's your restaurant,
you can choose the location yourself.
What do you mean, my restaurant?
It's our restaurant.
You open the restaurant yourself.
I've decided...
to go to the saltworks.
Why?
No reason.
I just don't want to stay here anymore.
Didn't we agree
that
we'd open a restaurant together
and stay with Mom?
Why did you change your mind?
Why are you shouting?
A breakup?
Don't talk nonsense.
It must be a breakup.
Who is the girl?
Your necklace
was for her, right?
Stop asking!
No use hiding it,
I saw it.
Smoking up here
and staring at the necklace.
Did you not gift it out
or was it rejected?
Is she your classmate?
Do I know her?
Can you stop asking?
Fine, I'll stop.
I'll ask Mom to ask you.
Don't you dare.
Bai Ji,
can I trust you?
Of course.
There're some things
I can't really explain.
But you have to trust me.
I won't do anything stupid.
I've figured it out.
Wait...
What do you mean?
I don't understand.
What you shouldn't have seen,
what you shouldn't have known,
just pretend it never happened.
This family will never change.
You must promise me
you won't ever
ask me again
or tell anyone.
Never.
Can you do that?
Yes.
Come in.
Mom.
Writing a letter?
To my comrades.
I asked Bai Ji
to sleep in Ju's room
and not to bother you.
It's fine.
I let him down this time.
I broke my word.
I should apologize to you too.
I've only just come back,
and now I'm leaving again.
I told you
your own future
is your own decision to make.
You don't need to apologize
to anyone.
I just hope
you can be true to yourself.
The saltworks is pretty good.
At least it's a state-owned enterprise.
I've always known
you like Bai Ju.
Mom...
You...
You're my child.
I'm able to tell
how you feel.
You two have been the closest
since you were little.
I saw
how you took care of Bai Ju.
You decided to go to the saltworks
not because you wanted to go,
but because of Bai Ju,
right?
Mom,
why are you saying all this?
I've decided to swallow it.
I didn't want anyone to know.
You don't need to keep everything
to yourself.
If you have something on your mind,
let it out.
Don't keep it bottled up inside.
Many things are no longer the way
I thought they would be.
I had planned
to distinguish myself in the army,
earn a promotion to officer,
and after a few years,
return with honor,
and say the words I'd kept unspoken
to Bai Ju.
But I was wrong.
This idea
was wrong from the beginning.
Bai Chun,
there's nothing wrong
with you liking Bai Ju.
But it is. Extremely wrong.
She's always
seen me as an older brother,
trusted me,
and respected me.
She would only
confide in me.
I can't just go along with my own wishes.
Besides,
she already
has feelings for Mr. Shao.
They're getting along so well
and such a good match,
if I tell her,
it'll only hurt her
and mess up this family.
I know
you are a sensible child.
I'm sorry you had to
enlist so young
back when our family was struggling.
If you had stayed at home
like Bai Ju,
and went to university...
It's the same, Mom.
It really is the same.
I've made up my mind.
In this family,
I'll always...
I'll always be Bai Ju's older brother.
Mom,
my future...
you've let me decide for myself.
My relationship...
let me decide for myself as well,
okay?
Chun,
we waited for you for so long,
and you finally came back.
But now,
you're leaving home again.
Mom.
Don't cry.
It's not like I'm not coming back.
Mom,
I'm off.
Take care of yourself.
Goodbye.
Bai Ju,
I've been in the army for six years.
I guess I've gotten used to
[To Bai Ju]
putting my words to you
in letters.
Let's
keep doing this.
The saltworks is far from home,
so I can't go back often.
Please help
take care of Mom and Bai Ji.
Be careful
when you enter the mountains again.
I remember you said
people in our life
will eventually leave.
I saw you had made
new friends,
and it gave me
a bittersweet feeling.
So I must go find
my place in the world now.
And find the meaning of life again.
Mr. Shao,
Bai Ju has always been
my most beloved sister.
In her words,
among the four kids in the family,
she and I are the closest.
Since she was little,
I knew she was a brave
and independent girl.
I once thought
she would always be free
and on her own.
So,
when I saw
she had someone she liked,
I was surprised,
but I'm also happy for her.
After talking to you last time,
I knew
why she likes you.
You said
there're people you like here,
and things you like to do.
To be honest,
I envy you.
Bai Ju is someone who keeps herself busy
all the time.
Someone who won't
give up easily.
I hope you will stay by her side
and keep her company,
just like you are now.
Come down.
You'll report to the director.
Hello.
Is the director here?
He's over there.
I'll get him for you.
Okay.
Director!
They're here!
This place?
Isn't this exile?
Isn't it good here?
Vast horizons,
boundless opportunities!
Boundless opportunities!
Captain,
there's indeed
something wrong with this factory.
This is from Chief Shi.
What's wrong?
Take a look
at the names on these
two documents.
They're both registration documents
of this factory.
The name of the legal representative
doesn't align?
Right.
This one here
is information of the legal representative
of Xinhua Electric Heater Factory.
[Application for Business Registration
by a Legal Entity]
His name is Zhao Gang.
He was sentenced for illegally
purchasing mercury.
We knew about this.
Chief Shi also said
Zhao Gang
has only been in office for three months.
Before him,
there was another legal representative.
His name is Li Yongqiang.
He used to be the legal representative
of this factory.
He means
this Zhao Gang
is a scapegoat?
Li Yongqiang
is not a local.
He's a merchant from the south.
He also owns
a freight company.
It's called
"Maji County Hongyuan Freight Company."
Why isn't there
a copy of his ID card?
Where's the photo?
I asked about it.
They said it wasn't in the file.
They lost it.
I suspect that
it was sneaked out by the person
who submitted the application.
Keep investigating.
Okay.
Are you done?
Drive the truck over here if you are,
and load the goods.
Wait a little longer.
The driver isn't back yet.
I can drive. Let me.
Not bad.
Nice work.
I used to drive a truck.
I have a driver's license.
So how did you end up as the laborer?
The company went out of business.
They didn't even pay our wages.
Boss,
can I
drive here?
We don't hire Tibetan drivers.
Come on.
I'm a good driver.
I've driven in the Uninhabited Zone.
We don't go to the Uninhabited Zone.
Right.
I'm trying to say
I can work in harsh conditions.
Go back to work.
Boss!
The truck is fixed.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Boss,
I am a Han Chinese.
I have a license too.
So...
can I be a driver here?
We don't hire non-locals.
I've been here for more than three years.
I know the roads very well.
Hire me.
I'll give you 20 more today.
Get back to work.
Where have you been?
We're leaving at midnight.
What's the rush?
Have you been sleeping somewhere?
Just a nap.
You drank?
It's tea.
My turn?
Your turn.
Can we throw away this stone?
Captain uses it to support his lower back.
He'll be cross with you
if you throw it away.
But it's so uncomfortable.
People tend to have lower back issues
when they're old.
It's better than nothing.
I'll take a nap.
Watch carefully.
Wake me up if anyone comes out.
Okay.
That car?
The last digits are "158."
That's it.
I've been discharged for a week.
I should go back and say hi
to the patrol team.
You can go back
when you're fully recovered.
Everyone is busy
investigating the gold mine.
You won't see anyone.
Especially Sangba,
he's the busiest.
He went to take the English exam again.
But I'm telling you,
this time he's definitely going to pass.
He's the one taking the exam.
Why are you so confident?
I helped him cram for it.
I've gained quite a bit of experience.
What now?
Thinking about switching to
teaching English?
Well...
when I have kids,
I can help with their homework.
You sure think far ahead.
Thinking about kids
when you haven't even got a wife.
You're right.
I should think about wife first.
Have you really never thought
about these things?
No.
Bai Ju,
I remember you said
back in the Uninhabited Zone
that you don't have any goal.
I said you do.
You just
don't want to say it out loud.
You're afraid your hopes will be dashed.
So,
all these years,
was there
ever even just one time where,
regardless of what other people
might think of you
or what the outcome might be,
at the very moment you wanted it
the most,
you voiced your expectations?